---
layout: post
title: "The Trump Bot"
date: 2017-08-28 16:11:51 +01:00
---

# The Trump Bot

Earlier this year, I found myself checking Trump's approval rating several times a week. I realised that if someone had made a Twitter account to report, this I could turn on push notifications and be alerted when things changed.

It turned out to be true: [@potusapproval](https://twitter.com/potusapproval) does just that. I turned on these notifications.  For the record, his approval so far is about 35% and decreasing at about 1% per month.

Not long later, I found out that betting odds were suggesting that Trump may not make it to the end of his four year term, and that the chances of this happening were as low as 50%. This gave me something else to check, and I couldn't find a bot for this one.

## Betfair Exchange

I like watching betting markets for a fairly neutral view of what is likely to happen, especially when there is a wide range of opinions in the media.  You can figure out the effective probability of something happening from betting odds, but there's a slight catch - since the bookie always takes a cut, the odds are slightly changed. If you sum the probabilities of each event happening, you will get to slightly less than one.

Betfair Exchange is a little different: it's a platform allowing people to bet against each other.  They claim that this leads to the best odds, and that's true, in a way, but only because they're making money in a different way.  If you win, they take a cut from the winnings afterwards.  Anyway, since people are betting both ways on the same thing it's possible to take the average of the two sets of odds and get an unbiased value for the odds.

## How it works

I previously wrote a simple bot to post the opening times for the Oxford University Parks.
